# GSM-GPS-based-Automatic-Vehicle-Accident-Detection-and-Alerting-System
The main aim of this project is to construct a smart vehicle system with minimizing the limitations of existing methods and also enhancing the security of vehicles and human beings and also reduces the accidental injuries. smart vehicle system will entail a speed and other parameters of vehicle sensing mechanism which automatically messages to personal contacts with the details of vehicle position when an accident occurs using the GSM/GPRS system.   In the survey conducted, few papers on accident detection algorithms have been studied thoroughly and analyzed to understand the previous developments in the field of accident detection, the different ways in which such a system can be developed to provide different functionalities and also to design a new system which can combine the advantages of these algorithms. The study is depicted in a tabular format with suitable parameters describing the usefulness of the algorithms. Automatic accident detection focuses on increasing the safety, automatic accident detection, emergency assistance and road hazard warning dissemination. The impact of rapid Incident Detection on Freeway accidents fatalities focuses on reducing the time between the occurrence of accidents and estimates the impact of freeway incident detection systems along with providing fatality reduction benefits in an economic way. Using smartphones to detect car accidents and provide situational awareness to Emergency response provides solutions to the major problems in detecting traffic accidents to avoid false positives and increases preparedness to emergency responders. This system is not only efficient but also worthy to be implemented.  
